Before I show how to create a user

I want to revisit a point I briefly touched on

during the lecture on connecting to the MySQL server.

The MySQL user account is its own entity.

It can be different from the user as whom

you are signed in to the computer.

It can and should be different from the account

you use to access the web application that

is using the MySQL database.

For instance, I'm signed in

to my computer as marc.

But, I've been accessing the database as root.

When I create new Drupal websites,

I always create a MySQL user account

just for that website.

The user account and password

are things that I make up

just for MySQL database

and aren't used anywhere else.

And, to reinforce another point,

I am using the root user

as a matter of convenience.

It is best practice to have

your applications access the MySQL database

with a user other than root.

You may also create a special user

with elevated privileges to do

the MySQL Database administration.

So, how about if I finally get to it!

I'll demonstrate a basic example

by executing the statement:

CREATE USER 'myfirstuser'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'reallybadpassword';

The command is pretty straightforward.

But, there are typical stumbling blocks.

Pay attention that I have placed single quotes around

the user name and the host name and that the "@" sign

is not inside the quotes.

You also need to recognize that I have

specified a particular host.

This fact becomes important when

I want to assign privileges.

I will come back to this point

in the lecture on managing user privileges.

MySQL does recognize the "%" wildcard.

You may need to make use of it

to address special needs

in your particular circumstance.

However, it's beyond the scope of

this course to get into

the various security measures

and different circumstances

a person may encounter.

Now that I have created a user,

it's possible for that user

to sign in to the MySQL server.

I'll sign out of the root account

and I'll sign in using the myfirstuser account.

When I inspect the Databases available to me

I see that there really aren't many.

This is because this user hasn't been

granted any privileges.

I will cover that in a separate lecture.

I'll sign in again with my root account

so that I can show you one last thing

in this lecture.

If I want to delete a user account

I can execute the statment:

DROP USER 'myfirstuser'@'localhost';

Pay attention that I do have to specify

the user name and the host name

the same way as when I created the user account.

I'll create the account again so that

it's ready for the lecture on managing privileges.

See you in the next lecture!
