The first thing that you will need to do

is to connect to the MySQL server.

You can use "man mysql" to access

the manual page for the mysql command.

The two options I will use are

-u (or --user) and

-p (or --password).

Your situation may require

that you also use the -h option.

I will discuss that situation separately.

The first thing you should make sure

you understand is that the user assigned

to access the database does not have

to be the same as the user that

signs in to the web application.

In fact, best practice is that

it is not the same user.

It also follows that best practice

is that the password is different as well.

In order to be able to complete the rest

of the lectures, you must have the credentials

for a user that has elevated privileges.

Otherwise, you will not be able to

create databases and users.

For my examples I will be using

the root user.

To specify which user is accessing

the database you can use the short option

-u followed by a space and then the user name.

Alternatively, you can use the long option

--user followed by the equal sign and then the user name.

The next point to keep in mind is that

you should never specify the password

with the command string itself.

Doing so results in the clear text

version of the password being saved

to a log file on the server.

So, whether you use the short option -p

or the long option --password

you should not include the actual password.

Instead, let the system prompt you

to enter the password separately.

For my example, the completed command looks like

mysql -u root -p

Now I enter the password and press enter

to be taken to the database server.

I will quit out of the server

and discuss the hostname option.

You can use the short version -h

or the long version --host

The reason that I did not need to

use the host option for my first example

is that the value defaults to localhost,

which just means that the database server

is located on the same machine I'm currently using.

It's also possible that the database server

is located on a different machine.

I will illustrate the use of the host option now.

For my example the completed command looks like

mysql -u root -p -h localhost

Once again, after I enter the password

and press enter I am taken

to the database server.

So now that you know how to

sign in to the MySQL server,

it's time to start administering things.

See you in the next lecture!
