A user can't do anything with

a MySQL database until that user

has been granted privileges.

Which privileges a particular user needs

is dependent on a given set of circumstances.

I will provide a basic example of granting privileges.

One thing that is useful to do before

you begin the process of granting privileges

is to determine how a user has been

created in the system.

You must grant the privileges to

the specific user that has been created.

So, I'll start out by executing the statement:

SELECT user, host FROM mysql.user;

I can see that the 'myfirstuser' account

had been defined for the localhost host.

It's possible to create the same user with different

hosts and grant it different privileges

for those different hosts.

Let's say that I want 'myfirstuser'

to have complete control over

the 'mydatabase' database.

I can execute the statement:

GRANT ALL ON mydatabase.* TO 'myfirstuser'@'localhost';

Note that I have indicated that 'myfirstuser' can

do anything on any of the tables in the database

by using the "*" wildcard.

I could choose to grant privileges at the table level

by specifying the table name instead of using a wildcard.

If you take a look at the GRANT grammar,

you will also notice that it's possible to

grant privileges on specfic columns.

You can get quite sophisticated with what

you allow different users to do.

If you want to determine what privileges

a user has you can execute the statement:

SHOW GRANTS FOR 'myfirstuser'@'localhost';

Let's say that I decided I wanted 'myfirstuser'

to have a more restricted set of privileges.

First I'll revoke all of the privileges

by executing the statement:

REVOKE ALL ON mydatabase.* FROM 'myfirstuser'@'localhost';

Maybe I just wanted 'myfirstuser' to be able to

retrieve information from the tables,

add information to the tables

and update information in the tables.

I can execute the statement:

GRANT SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE ON mydatabase.* TO 'myfirstuser'@'localhost';

One final thing you may need to do

when dealing with granting users access

to the database is to reset

a user's password.

You can accomplish this by executing the statement:

SET PASSWORD FOR 'myfirstuser'@'localhost' = PASSWORD('stillbadpassword');

Now you know how to be the ruler of your MySQL domain!

I'll see you in the next lecture!
I'll see you in the next lecture
