Welcome to Command Line Survival: Manage MySQL Databases With Ease!

I'm Marc Isaacson and I'm your instructor.

I'm thrilled to have you as a student.

Congratulations on choosing to enhance your command line acumen.

I know it's sometimes a daunting choice to make.

Have no fear!

By the end of this course you will be able to

easily complete all the typical administrative tasks

involved in managing a MySQL database, including:

Creating the Database;

Creating Users;

Managing User Privileges;

and Backing up and Restoring Databases.

You'll even pick up a few additional skills

to round out your Command Line MySQL skill set!

In case you are still doubtful about

whether that's really possible,

let me tell you a bit more about myself.

When I first started in web development

I relied on tools like phpMyAdmin or Chive.

There was a time that I had joked with a colleague

that if I couldn't use them,

I would just tell a client that

they were out of luck.

I was only half-joking, though.

I was a bit nervous about what I'd do

if I had to deal with MySQL databases

from the command line.

I had visions of needing to spend

hours using search engines

to figure out how to use

the proper commands.

Well, the good news is

that it doesn't take hours

of using search engines!

I've designed the course so that

a total beginner can succeed!

As long as you have access to

a terminal program that can

connect to a MySQL Database server

you are ready to go.

And, what's even better is that

you can make it through the whole course

in just one brief sitting!

That's right!

In a short period of time

you will be ready to tackle

all the typical tasks that are required

in a real work environment!

Let me give you a quick overview of

just how the course is structured

to ensure your success.

There are three main sections for the commands.

The first section teaches you all the basic commands.

The next section teaches you about backing up

and restoring databases.

Then there is a section that includes some

slightly more advanced commands.

Each of the sections concludes with a

practice activity or quiz to help you

solidify your understanding.

Don't worry, they all come with answer sheets.

And whenever you need more help, you can

create a post in the Discussion section.

I'll be sure to answer it

within one working day.

You're in good hands!

So, are you ready to get started?

Let's get rolling!

Your new and improved skillset awaits!
